---
title: "On the Matter of Love"
date: 2017-11-21T02:41:29+05:30
draft: false
---

I'm not very romantic by profession, which is engineering, but if this post gets you somewhere, believe me, it's not me. Have you felt the tingling of heart in the presence of a certain someone? The tingling that sends blood rushing throughout your body. When your veins are screaming the constant melody of your heart. If you know this feeling, you will know what I'm saying. When being close to that person makes your mouth go dry, no it is not your subconscious intentions(preparations) for the upcoming kiss. It is the heat that he feels from your subtle presence. You must have seen her speak so much, but when the season is of love, you will hardly hear her utter words.

This is not to tell you what the feeling of love is. I know you have all felt it in your own ways. I want to write the journey that takes us back to that moment(moments for lucky few) and let us live once more. I'm making a huge promise about the journey here, but bear with me if it resembles a local bus too.

On the matter of travelling. We have memories on the back seat of the bike. The seat that seems so big that you could fit a mountain between the riders and still there would be space. Even the person driving with the act of being decent doesn't use break much. If you are like me you would be afraid to use the break at all. I would rather hit a pole than apply a break and called a pervert. In the back seat, the feelings are not much different. I cannot talk much about the other rider as I'm not much of mind reader. Maybe you would want to fill in the blanks?? I could talk about a travel in the car or on a bus. How you would stand close by, guard against all evil, claiming all her aroma is yours. If you had the power you wouldn't even let the breeze take it way, but alas you can't do much. So you choose to let it get away, still, your heart is not happy and you breathe heavy, at least you will have some part of her in yourself. That part precisely is your lungs. :')

If you have been amongst the fortunate few and had somehow managed to steal some moments of privacy. Somehow if you managed to arrange [Felix Felicis](https://www.google.co.in/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwiBo-zri87XAhWLN48KHRN2ADMQFggnMAA&url=http:%2F%2Fharrypotter.wikia.com%2Fwiki%2FFelix_Felicis&usg=AOvVaw16lN8PCt1JI6ITtryiIqDZ) and make the lights dim, the sky cloudy. And for the likes of me, I would prefer making the moon appear bigger than usual and an array of start gazing toward us. That would have been the best moment of your life. When the hands attached to your arms were acting a bit weird. To hold, naah, to touch the hands of your love. To know how it feels to have a touch of love. The love we all desire so much. The jingling in the heart and the butterflies in the stomach and beyond. That distance has never been more beautiful. I don't know if I should go on, lest I'm am titled a pervert. I am asking you to trust me just like I asked her and she closed her eyes. :)

Love is a different feeling and even I don't know how it feels. Every time I am feeling it I know it is love but if I try to recollect it after, it's not there anymore. I would say it's like the dew. Just there on the soft grass leaves when the night and the day are meeting and gone as soon as the two lovers depart. Only to meet sometime soon.
