---
title: "The Way of Life"
date: 2017-12-23T19:52:50+05:30
draft: true
---

Is life simple and are we complicating things? I'm not sure if I have anything to write today. I'm not certain that I understand what the way of life means either. In life happiness and sorrow is a vital part, just like the night and the day. Can anyone say that the day is more important than the night? One meaningless without the other. To understand what being hungry means, you need to live without food. To know what being broke is about, you need to go throught the experience of making a choice between the breakfast and the lunch. For most of us this is theory and I consider that as very fortunate thing.

We have desires. How would you define desire? Pause for a minute and give it a thought and let's see if we both have something to learn from each other. To me the desire is like a fire which burns within us. When we see and interact with the world, based on our prespective, culture, etc we have developed some preferences. These preferences helps us make choice about what is beneficial and what is harmful for us. In a broader sense, we classify things as likes and dislikes. When we see or get to know about something we like, we add fuel to this desire. This fire within then pushes us forward to do things, we might not do normally.

I'm looking for peace, I don't know if I already have it or not. I think we may earn any amount of money and it may still be less for us. The needs and the desires are never ending. I am in a cycle, where I want to do things that I like and in turn make some money. There are times when I don't want to do that something. There is a whole lot of confusion in my head. I really don't even know what we like. I think we want a purpose, which is bigger than the desire. A purpose is of course something we like and we care about, but it has enough fuel to keep us moving when other physical and emotional constraints are limiting. So what can be my purpose? I don't know. Has anyone before me found the purpose of life? It seems so. So let's go through some of these people and what is the special thing they had which I am lacking. First of I would need to know which person in my knowledge had a purpose??? Let's start with Siddharth Gautam, a prince. Living a very luxurious life, with all the aminities. So there is certainity that money was not much of a motivation for him. He goes out in the real world, see common people, who have less than what he has. They are going through illness, old age and death. Didn't he knew about all this? Not sure. He also sees a monk who is trying to find the purpose of life. He plans on to become one like them. Don't he know that the life of a monk will be difficult? The luxury that has will be no more? He will have to ask for food and eat what he gets, even though he may not like the food. He will have no guarentee that where will he sleep on a cold night. He will have to walk the scrotching sun bare feet. Still he goes on to be one of them. He finally after years and years of hardword found out his purpose of life. He surely did find out, but I don't understand it.

They say we are all one. The world, the being, the plant, the trees. Then why do we have selfishness and why is it so difficult to give it up? Why do we lie when we know that speaking truth is the best thing we can do. What factors and forces enables us to do all this. It could be attributed to the wishpers of the _Stan_.


Thoughts are so rough and wild, but when you try to sit down and put them down on a sheet of paper. It has never been quiter. I just see what all kind of thoughts I keep having. I'm starting to do some freelance work. There is an amount of risk involved. I've deadlines to meet. One suggestion to everyone who is giving a deadline. Take a days time. Drill down, make as granular task list as you can. Then sleep over the estimates you have. Next day increase the time if you think it's valid. Finally never settle for what someone else is suggesting. Let them know that what deadline you are suggesting will be there, but you will try to get things done on the date you are expecting. Just don't give in because someone supirior that you thinks it can be done faster. You have made estimates and it can still be wrong, but trusting your feeling and making mistakes yourself is far better than crying on decissions you didn't even made. This is a lesson that I've learned. I'm not a tight deadline. Trying to solve some hard problems(really?).

Why do you even think that what you are doing is hard?

1. I need to figure out the documentation on how thing is to be done? Is there any other way? Do you think anyone got it readymade like they were given a video tutorial on how to get the task done and they just had to do it? Nope, if a task had been that simple, it wouldn't cost that much. The real value you are producing is the ability to figure out what's difficult to figure out.
2. Don't understand why things are the way they are. This can be due to the lack of knowledge in the system you are workign. Remedy it by understanding the pieces. How they work and how they fit in togather.
